= WHM XML-API Ruby Wrapper

This is a Ruby wrapper for the cPanel WHM XML-API interface. It will allow you to perform multiple functions available on your cPanel WHM server. For more information on the XML-API, see the cPanel website at http://twiki.cpanel.net/twiki/bin/view/AllDocumentation/AutomationIntegration/XmlApi.

== Requirements

The following Ruby gems are required to be installed in order to make use this gem:

xml-simple (>= 1.0.12)::      http://xml-simple.rubyforge.org
activesupport (>= 2.3.2)::    http://as.rubyonrails.org
curb (>= 0.3.2)::             http://curb.rubyforge.org
validatable (>= 1.6.7)::      http://validatable.rubyforge.org

== Usage

First off, you must have root access to a cPanel WHM server. With this gem, you can either use <b>password</b> or <b>remote access key</b> authentication. To get to the remote access key in WHM (which is likely the more secure method of connecting), go under "Cluster/Remote Access", and click on "Setup Remote Access Key". You can either copy the pre-generated one, or re-generate it.

==== Installation

You can install this gem simply by doing the following:

    $ gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
    $ gem install ivanoats-whm_xml_api_ruby

You can also include it in a Rails project:

    $ script/plugin install git://github.com/ivanoats/whm_xml_api_ruby.git

==== Connecting

To access the functions of the server, all you need to do is initialize a new Server class:

    server = Whm::Server.new(
      :username => "root",
      :remote_access_key => "sd00fsd2i3rj...",
      :host => "dedicated.server.com"
    )
    
    server.version
    => "11.24.2"
    
== Currently Available Methods

As of WHM version 11.24.2, these are the methods that are available via this gem:

* <tt>account_summary</tt>
* <tt>change_account_password</tt>
* <tt>change_package</tt>
* <tt>create_account</tt>
* <tt>generate_ssl_certificate</tt>
* <tt>hostname</tt>
* <tt>limit_bandwidth_usage</tt>
* <tt>list_accounts</tt>
* <tt>list_packages</tt>
* <tt>modify_account</tt>
* <tt>suspend_account</tt>
* <tt>terminate_account</tt>
* <tt>unsuspend_account</tt>
* <tt>version</tt>

== Authors and credits

Authors::     Ivan Storck, Josh Delsman, Padraic McGee
Home page::   http://github.com/ivanoats/whm_xml_api_ruby

== License

Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Ivan Storck

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.